Add ball joint damping helper support (#3298)
newton-physics/newton: CHANGELOG.md

- Add SDF contact support for convex-hull shapes with mesh-attached SDFs and opt-in SDF contact generation for box shapes.
- Add opt-in filtering of static-static, static-kinematic, and kinematic-kinematic contacts during broad-phase collision detection. Set `CollisionPipeline(include_static_kinematic_pairs=False)` to enable filtering; the default preserves existing contact generation. `Model.shape_contact_pairs` remains an unfiltered superset for direct consumers such as `SolverKamino` and hydroelastic SDF setup.
- Add opt-in `body_frame_origin="com"` to `ModelBuilder.add_rod()` and `ModelBuilder.add_rod_graph()` for COM-centered cable capsule body frames.

> - Add public `ModelBuilder.add_joint_ball(..., damping=...)` support and broaden BALL joint damping regression coverage.

Reviewer: Test coverage is an internal detail we keep out of the user-facing changelog, and "Add public ... support" reads as if the method were new. Suggested wording that also documents the new default-fallback behavior:

```suggestion
- Add a `damping` parameter to `ModelBuilder.add_joint_ball()` that applies passive angular damping to all three ball-joint DOFs; when omitted, `ModelBuilder.default_joint_cfg.damping` applies.
```

Author: Updated with the suggested changelog wording and moved the entry to `[Unreleased]` -> `Added` while merging the latest `upstream/main`. I also resolved the `test_joint_damping.py` conflict by preserving the expanded BALL helper coverage and adopting the upstream vector gravity configuration. The joint-damping suite passes (14 tests across CPU/CUDA), and `pre-commit` passes as well.

- Add SDF contact support for convex-hull shapes with mesh-attached SDFs and opt-in SDF contact generation for box shapes.
- Add opt-in filtering of static-static, static-kinematic, and kinematic-kinematic contacts during broad-phase collision detection. Set `CollisionPipeline(include_static_kinematic_pairs=False)` to enable filtering; the default preserves existing contact generation. `Model.shape_contact_pairs` remains an unfiltered superset for direct consumers such as `SolverKamino` and hydroelastic SDF setup.
- Add opt-in `body_frame_origin="com"` to `ModelBuilder.add_rod()` and `ModelBuilder.add_rod_graph()` for COM-centered cable capsule body frames.
- Add `Model.shape_collision_filter_contains()`, `Model.shape_collision_filter_mask()`, and `Model.shape_collision_filter_pairs_array()` for solver integrations that need collision-filter queries.

> - Add `Model.shape_collision_filter_contains()`, `Model.shape_collision_filter_mask()`, and `Model.shape_collision_filter_pairs_array()` for solver integrations that need collision-filter queries. (#3187)

Reviewer: looks like a duplicate here

Author: Removed the duplicate entry in `c794966f` and retained the upstream entry with the `#3187` attribution.

> - Add `Model.shape_collision_filter_contains()`, `Model.shape_collision_filter_mask()`, and `Model.shape_collision_filter_pairs_array()` for solver integrations that need collision-filter queries. (#3187)

Author: Removed the duplicate entry in `c794966f` and retained the upstream entry with the `#3187` attribution.
